while President Biden's National
Security adviser is expected to travel
to Israel on Thursday Jake Sullivan has
been in Saudi Arabia ahead of that visit
though it doesn't have to be that you go
from that to literally nothing in terms
of putting pressure on going after Hamas
targets Hamas leadership or continuing
to have tools in your uh toolbox to try
to secure the release of hostages it
just means that you'd move to a
different phase from the kind of
high-intensity operation that we see
today well let's discuss this with Ramy
Hy he's a distinguished public policy
fellow at the American University of
Beirut he joins us now from Boston Ramy
as we've been reporting Jake Sullivan is
set to meet with Netanyahu I stand on
Thursday after what we've heard over the
last couple of days from Biden what tone
do you think those discussions might
take this
time well the United States and Israel
have been able to
remarkably put themselves in a corner
almost by by themselves um as evil
people in the eyes of most of the world
if you look at the polling evidence the
demonstrations the vote at the UN any
measure that you take almost the entire
world with the exception of one or two
uh smaller countries and the United
States uh are um are critical of what
Israel is doing heavily critical um and
uh this is something that is U very
troubling for for the United States
because it has political implications it
has diplomatic implications economic uh
implications and the United States is
not very good at diplomacy it's very
good at killing it's very good at
creating arms that kill a lot of people
and selling them uh and letting its
allies kill as much as they want but
it's not very good at diplomacy and
sorting out these kind of issues and
there's massive evidence now uh that
people ordinary people around the Middle
East are extremely uh disappointed with
the us only about 1% uh of people who
were pulled in uh in Palestine for
instance last week um suggested that
they were satisfied with the US where
something like 80 uh 90% were were
critical of the US and you've got
governments around the Arab region who
are looking to balance their previously
very strong relations with the us to
have more balanced relations with other
powers Regional powers and intern powers
like Iraq like Iran turkey China Russia
Etc let me jump in there because I'm
curious about what you just mentioned
you're talking about and describing this
increasing isolation for the US now
Sullivan began this visit to the region
with the Saudi Crown Prince Right how
are relations between the US and Arab
nations in the region these
days well they're changing uh the most
of the the problem in the Arab world for
the US is that the governments rely
heavy on the US most of them not all of
them rely on it for money uh guns
diplomatic support political support
just for the very survival the regimes
the governments the populations of the
Middle East of of the whole Middle East
including turkey and Iran and the Arab
countries uh are extremely critical of
the United States and have been for for
many years heavily because of its policy
on palestin and also because of its
policy of supporting dictators around uh
the region and its own Direct military
uh intervention and and the United
States doesn't quite know how to deal
with this and you've got new things now
for instance the Yemen situation with
the houis attacking ships in the Red Sea
this is extraordinary um and they might
you know slow down or stop shipping um
and this is a vital artery for global
Shipping it will hurt economic interest
of everybody uh and you've got the uh
the problem of U the post most fighting
situation in the region nobody knows
what's going to happen there's a zillion
speculation especially here in the
United States uh there's whole industry
of talking about what's going to happen
after the fighting stops but it's all
speculation um and the United States and
Israel have been able to dominate the uh
diplomatic field now with their military
Pro um and completely befuddle the whole
world in terms of what can happen
diplomatically and everything that the
US Israel says they want to do is very
much opposed by Palestinians uh yes
we've been hearing that Ramy before I I
let you go I do want to ask you about
what we've been hearing from Biden
recently he's been talking again about
saudi's normalization with Israel and
I'm been wondering because this is the
beginning of Sullivan's trip is this
potentially some strategy an attempt at
some kind of carot and stick policy with
Netanyahu well they will definitely the
US will definitely keep pushing for
normalization U and the Abraham Accords
uh but these are pretty meaningless when
you get a massive popular uh opposition
and resentment to the US because of and
Israel because of these uh uh these
polls and you're getting evidence from
uh around the region that people are
getting more militant uh and they're
supporting Hamas more nobody wants
Warfare but nobody wants subjugation
occupation colonization settlement uh as
they've been getting from the US and
from Israel for decades and DEC so
there's a really big danger for the US
now uh in political and economic and and
and and Military fields and the Israel
not achieve their military objectives um
and the Hamas is holding out so they're
really going out to try to put out some
fires and try to regain control of some
kind of diplomatic process which they
hope they can manage and it has to
include a serious move to a Palestinian
State and ending the Israeli occupation
if those things don't start happening
there will just be continuation of what
we've had for the last 40 years and
we've seen that we've seen has been born
Hamas has been Bor now you've got the
htis with their power and you just get
more and more of these militant uh
radical Arab groups that are extremely
proficient at pushing back against
settler Colonial
policies Imperial policies Israel and
the us we'll continue watching that
visit very closely of Jake Sullivan to
the region certainly Ramy Hy a
distinguished public policy fellow at
the American University of bay thank you
for joining us again on Al jaer
Ramy you better